So let's useMemo,
we're gonna get to useCallback and
it's gonna look really similar
because they're very similar.
Okay, so I have this useRef component,
right, this is actually literally
the exact same component that we
looked at it in the useRef example.
I don't want this to rerender
ever basically, right?
But you can imagine, let's say I have some
callback that I'm providing into this.
So you can imagine this would be
something to update the parent,
it could be a hook function.
It could be some sort
of function that I need
to render this home component correctly or
something like that.
I don't know, some sort of callback that I
have to give into the useRef here, right?
So I'm getting back to this prop here
called CB into my useRef component.
If this is not literally the exact
same callback every single time,
it's gonna say, hey,
something changed, right?
To prove my point here, I have my useful
callback here, if I just copy and
paste this here, And
I save and I rerender,
Three just gives up.
It's you're trying to rerender me way too
much, I don't know what to do about this,
I'm done, right, that's a problem.
So that's why we have this thing
called memoized useCallback.
You can memoize a callback and
then parse that into the function.
And if you remember from that previous
section, this is wrapped in memo,
also important.
The component you're passing into has
to have memo wrapping it as well.
But using useCallback and memo together,
you'll get this ability to not rerender
the component every single time.
Going back to useCallback.
So that's the point of useCallback
is to memoize some callback so
that you're giving the exact same
function in every single time.
So that memo can cause this component to
not rerender despite the fact that this
is rerendering every single time that
ball moves back and forth, right?
If you're looking at it and
saying, that's pretty specific,
it's cuz it's pretty specific, right?
It's a very specific performance
optimization, but in a case
like this would be essential, you wouldn't
be able to accomplish this any other way.
Now I'm pretty sure,
let's see if I can code this from memory.
If you're looking at this,
this feels like just a very
strange way to rewrite,
useMemo, it's cuz it really is.
const memoizedCallback =,
and I think it's just
a function that provides
back a useful callback.
= useMemo.
Yeah, so line 15 and line 14 here
are actually precisely equivalent,
they do exactly the same thing.
So it's just a specific
use case of useMemo.
I think this is actually literally
how it's implemented inside of
the hook itself, so, But it's there,
I've heard people on the React team
say that they wish they hadn't shipped
useCallback because it's not necessary
you can just do it with useMemo.
But here we are, that's what it is.
Does it makes sense?
Or if it makes less sense, then you could
ignore it because there is useCallback, so
you can useCallback there.
So those two are performance
optimizations,
please only use them when you actually
have a performance problem like this.
This is a performance problem that
I've arbitrarily created for you.
But if you have that,
then by all means use these.
But otherwise, just file them in the back
of your brain as I'll use this when I find
jink in my UI.